Add 3rd party app distribution docs (#1179)
urbit/urbit.org: content/docs/userspace/dist/tools.md

+++
title = "Dojo Tools"
weight = 5
template = "doc.html"
+++

A number of generators are included for managing and viewing the status of desks and their agents. Each of these are documented below.

Note that some old generators have been replaced:

- `|start` - Replaced with [`|rein`](#rein).
- `|ota` - Replaced with [`|install`](#install), [`|uninstall`](#uninstall), [`|pause`](#pause) and [`|resume`](#resume).
- `|fade` - Replaced with [`|nuke`](#nuke).
- `|doze` - Replaced with [`|rein`](#rein) or [`|suspend`](#suspend).
- `|wake` - Replaced with [`|rein`](#rein) or [`|revive`](#revive).

> - `+trouble` - This still exists but is deprecated by [`+vats`](#vats).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `+trouble` - This still exists but is deprecated, and is now an alias for [`+vats`](#vats).
```

---

## `+vats`

Print out the status of each installed desk.

Desks in Clay which aren't installed will be omitted.

Fields:

- `/sys/kelvin` - The version of `%zuse` the desk is compatible with.
- `base hash` - The merge base (common ancestor) between the desk and its upstream source.
- `%cz hash` - The hash of the desk.
- `app status` - May be `suspended` or `running`.
- `force on` - Whether the desk has been force-started.

> - `force off` - Whether the desk has been force-stopped.

Reviewer: I'm not sure this is correct. I believe these list the apps that have been forced on/off using `|rein`.

- `source aeon` - The revision number of the desk on the `source ship`.
- `pending updates` - Updates waiting to be applied due to incompatibility.

#### Arguments

None.

#### Examples

```
> +vats
%base
  /sys/kelvin:      [%zuse 420]
  base hash:        ~
  %cz hash:         0v6.2nqmu.oqm24.ighl6.n0gp9.s8res.feql1.dl8ap.isli3.jk0hu.acrd2
  app status:       running
  force on:         ~
  force off:        ~
  publishing ship:  ~
  updates:          tracking
  source ship:      ~zod
  source desk:      %base
  source aeon:      3
  pending updates:  ~
::
%garden
  /sys/kelvin:      [%zuse 420]
  base hash:        ~
  %cz hash:         0v1e.2h7hs.elq3g.1sdt7.qfga6.ganga.7p95j.aog44.8p5fe.kpr6v.7ai82
  app status:       running
  force on:         ~
  force off:        ~
  publishing ship:  ~
  updates:          tracking
  source ship:      ~zod
  source desk:      %garden
  source aeon:      3
  pending updates:  ~
```

---

## `+agents`

Print out the status of Gall agents on a desk.

Agents may either be `archived` or `running`. Nuked or unstarted agents which are not on the manifest are omitted.

#### Arguments

```
desk
```

#### Example

```

> > +agents %landscape

Reviewer: Consider `+agents %garden` for a more succinct example.

status: running   %dm-hook
status: running   %sane
status: running   %contact-hook
status: running   %invite-store
status: running   %graph-store
status: running   %metadata-hook
status: running   %chat-view
status: running   %observe-hook
status: running   %hark-invite-hook
status: running   %chat-hook
status: running   %hark-chat-hook
status: running   %chat-store
```

---

## `|suspend`

Shut down all agents on a desk, archiving their states.

The tile in the homescreen (if it has one) will turn gray and say "Suspended" in the top-left corner. This generator does the same thing as selecting "Suspend" from an app tile's hamburger menu.

#### Arguments

```
desk
```

#### Examples

```
|suspend %bitcoin
```

---

## `|revive`

Revive all agents on a desk, migrating archived states.

All agents specified in `desk.bill` which are suspended will be restarted. If updates to the agents have occurred since their states were archived, they'll be migrated with the state transition functions in the agent. This generator does the same thing as selecting "Resume App" from the app tile's hamburger menu.

#### Arguments

```
desk
```

#### Examples

```
|revive %bitcoin
```

---

> ## `|install`

Reviewer: Worth noting that, as a parallel to `|uninstall` & `|suspend`, `|install` also does`|revive` behavior of the installed apps had previously been installed at some point.

Author: I tried and it seems it doesn't actually revive suspended agents
